---
layout: base.njk
title: Continuous Integration
subtitle: Github CI pipelines
ismarkdown: true
---
## Github Continuous Integration

This starter comes with 3 github pipelines that can be used for your project's continuous integration.

### Deployment to github pages

**pipeline:** pages.yml
**prerequisites**: In your repository settings, you need to set github-pages as a new environment.

The pipeline is triggered on every update of the default branch. it will deploy the static site generated by 11ty (in _site) to github pages that will make it available at https://<your_account_name>.github.io/<your_repository_name>

If you choose this solution to publish your site, remember that the `your_repository_name` will be added to the meta.json.

More on Github pages: https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site

### Deployment on a standalone server

**pipeline:** test.yml
**prerequisites**: You need to set up your own web server accessible via ssh.

The pipeline is triggered on every update of the `test` branch or manually in the github action tab.

It will copy the static site generated by 11ty (in _site) to the server of your choice using ssh.

To do so, you will need to create an ssh key and copy the public key to `.ssh/authorized_keys`. You will then need to save in your repository secrets all your server details:

- HOST: the name of your server
- USERNAME: your username
- KEY: the private ssh key you just created
- PORT: the specific port used by the server ssh daemon (default is 22)
- PATH: the location of your html root document (relative to your home on the server)

### Lighthouse pipeline

**pipeline:** lighthouse.yml
**prerequisites**: You need to create a LHCI_GITHUB_APP_TOKEN that you save in tokens and authorise the [lighthouse-ci](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse-ci) App in the repository setting of your project.

The lighthouse pipeline is triggered on every pull request, it will display the lighthouse score of the index page within your pull request checks. 

The settings of lighthouse are done in `lighthouserc.js` at the root of the project. It is possible to add assertions to focus on certain aspects of lighthouse measurements.

More on lighthouse-ci: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse-ci/blob/main/docs/getting-started.md
